




Business Case

















BSS Risk Assessment













Created by: 1498002





Created on: 14-12-2025





Version: 1.0






















Executive Summary

BSS Risk Assessment is conducted during M+12 to M+15 across all Legal entities, Segment & Group. From M+12 to M+ 15, follow up is done and the tracker updating happens.
Manual consolidation of the BSS Risk Assessment by different categories – substantiated at risk, unsubstantiated unowned, unsubstantiated owned.
Manual follow up and consolidation of manual submissions post FCA cutoff. Triggers escalation of the unsubstantiated via emails.
Current reporting does not have a caption view/ segment view/ legal entity view and is needed for the country reporting, risk forums and audit committee forums.
Additional manual efforts spent on above activities. 

AI agent assists users by highlighting high-risk GL accounts, suggesting risk ratings and proposing justification based on analysis of reconciliation data, adjustment activity inside the FC App and transaction data in general ledger. It detects anomalies in balances, ageing, recurring adjustments, historical trends or policy thresholds. enabling faster and more informed financial control decisions.

The BSS risk assessment is a critical Financial reporting (risk) process used for CFO attestation as well as Risk /Audit committee reporting, and thereby it is critical for automation.
At least 10 to 12 FTEs efforts is spent during M+12 to M+15, which is equivalent to 1 FTE saves.

AI Architect & AI Engineer from SCB AI Studios required to spent <100 days to build this AI model, along with GPM, Process lead, SME & PPE lead for at least 10 to 15 days equivalent efforts for Business Requirements, designing process models, validating the solutions created and perform testing to confirm results.

Recommended to proceed with Studio AI solutions which is inhouse and cost & timelines are minimal. 
Opportunity statement
Proposed Solution
Investment required
Expected Benefits 
Automation of BSS Risk Assessment
AI Solutions
3 FTEs 
1  FTE saves increasing efficiency
Improved Controls and Risk reporting. 
Problem/Opportunity statement
Current state: 
BSS Risk Assessment analysis with commentaries for 234 Les & Group is performed during M+12 to M+15 days & shared with CFOs, Risk Forums and Audit committee (Refer VISIO process map for detailed steps)
Highly manual process, with considerable time spent on consolidation on risk assessed file at a group level at legal entity to create a consolidated group view.
Manually updating unsubstantiated report daily (M+13 to M+15) to reflect the manual submissions received post FCA cutoffs.
Manual time spent on preparing the risk reporting packs.

Business impact: 
Improved and efficient risk reporting across CFO, Risk forum and audit committee.
1 FTE manual efforts reduction in BSS Risk Assessment process
Enhanced UKACG reporting and risk monitoring.

Drivers for Change:
In house AI solutions
AI teams availability
Solution feasibility 
Deployment timelines &
No additional cost for AI solutions (esp. no cost for LLM, Tokens, AI team)

Project Description
Proposed Solution: 
AI agent assists users by highlighting high-risk GL accounts, suggesting risk ratings and proposing justification based on analysis of reconciliation data, adjustment activity inside the FC App and transaction data in general ledger. It detects anomalies in balances, ageing, recurring adjustments, historical trends or policy thresholds. enabling faster and more informed financial control decisions.

Project Objectives
Optimisation of process to improve the process maturity levels
E2E process automation including Risk Assessment & identification of material items
Building block to create SCB Finance LLM

Scope 
In scope – BSS Risk Assessment
Out of scope – FORTM, BSS Reconciliations

Key deliverables
AI automation on BSS Risk Assessment

Analysis of Options
Not Applicable – Identified Studio AI is the option

Financial Analysis
Cost Summary - To be revised after discussion with Craig & team
Cost Category
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Total
Initial investment




Software/License
Nil



Infrastructure
Nil



Tokens
TBD



Consulting
TBD



Trainings
TBD



Maintenance/support
TBD



Total Cost
TBD




Benefits summary – As discussed, & agreed during the workshop
Benefits Category
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
Total
Revenue Increase




Cost Savings




Efficiency gains
1 FTE


1 FTE
Risk Mitigation




Total Benefits
1 FTE


1 FTE
Non-Financial Benefits
The BSS risk assessment is a critical Financial reporting (risk) process used for CFO attestation as well as Risk /Audit committee reporting, and thereby it is critical for automation.

Risk Assessment

Item CategoryDescriptionMitigation/Next stepsOwnerH/M/LTimelinesSolutions for Caption View
Ability to get the caption view for the Risk reporting purpose.
To be reviewed with Craig & team on the detailed requirements to assess solution feasibility
AI Architect
H
TBD








Implementation Approach
High level timelines estimated. The below timelines to be revised after discussion with Craig.
Phase 
Duration
Key Activities
Milestones
Phase 1: Planning
1 week
Business Requirements
BRD finalisation
Phase 2: Design
2 weeks
Future Process design
Operating model
RACI
Functional Requirement Document
Solution design finalisation
Phase 3 Development
5 weeks
Actual solution development
Solution
Phase 4 Testing & training
5 weeks
UAT
Scenario testing
Scenario testing
Phase 5 SIT, Governance 
2 weeks
Stress testing
Governance
Governance
Phase 6 Go live
1 week 
Production
Production
Total
15 weeks



Dependencies
Process team availability timelines esp. during month end close

Appendix
VISIO Process map
Process working files














Business case – BSS Risk Assessment



Report.doc
Page PAGE9 of NUMPAGES9



